Okay, so we talked about the inline
caches and how inline caches work.
And so you can see that inline cache
is a pretty cool trick that VMS can
use to make property access faster.
And so for the most part,
property access is fast.
And that's one of the reasons why as I
said when V8 first came out with Chrome,
10 15 years ago,
I don't remember how about a long time
it was such a huge step in performance
because it added inline caching.
Now, the funny thing is that inline
caching was not a new concept.
Other VMs already do this already.
So the trick was well known.
It's just for some reason JavaScript was
not considered cool or whatever and so
the JavaScript interpreters
didn't really use it.
But now we do and
it's kind of an important trick.
The other thing I kind of showed
you is this hidden class thing that
happens underneath an whole.
And I showed you how the Deopt Explorer
kind of shows you these particular
things, right?
And I showed you how to use
that particular tool, so
I think it's pretty cool.
We have a couple of more benchmarks
to show off, so let's see.
Let's talk about equality,
so there is double equal and
triple equal in JavaScript, right?
And we all know kind of the differences.
By the way,
once you should kind of look up, actually,
this is a tweet that I did so
we can kind of go onto it, let's go.
Bigger font.
What's kind of cool I find is
this particular matrix here,
which shows off what other type and
which other type
have the same value in both
double equal and triple equal.
And you can see that it's
kind of a complicated thing.
And I don't think anybody
actually knows this.
From day to day,
we don't kind of keep this in our head.
And so
it's just another argument led like,
hey, keep the world simple and
just do the right stuff.
Okay, so why is there such a big
difference between the two?
So let's kind of look into it.
So let's go equality, And let's run.
So let's run the equality benchmark and
we get that the double equals.
Wait, what the triple equals is slower?
Wait, no, that doesn't make any sense.
Because I'm doing triple equals and
I'm printing double equals.
Triple equals is significantly
faster than double equals.
Why is that?
Well, it comes down to that triple equals
just has to compare the values directly.
There's no coercion that has to happen,
right?
Whereas a double equals is like,
well, I'm a number, you're a string,
we could still be equal if I
convert the string into a number or
if I convert a number into a string, and
so it's like all this extra step that has
to happen in there to kind of figure this
out if that actually works out or not.
So in this particular case,
let's see what is the benchmark do?
So in this case, we have bunch of objects.
And into the objects we put in a custom
property for every single object.
So this is gonna be mega morphic,
right right here.
And then we are going to put
a value in here for I, and then for
the comparison we're gonna
either do a triple equal so
we're gonna compare the object to 1.
Now notice is a number, and
this object is going to be an object
the fact that it's mega
morphic doesn't matter because
we're not actually reading any
properties off of it, right.
Whereas in this case we're
using a double equals.
So we're comparing an object to a number
which should always be false In here.
And so this particular path is super
fast because to compare two objects,
the object is just a memory location,
right?
And so you compare the number that's
inside of a register with another
number that you expect.
Are they same?
Yes, no.
Move on with your life,
pretty, straightforward.
With double equals, the world is a little
more complicated because there is coercion
and hopefully I'm pronouncing it right.
Coercion, right?
And the coercion means that you might
have to call the value of property.
And so I'm gonna show you
a couple of cool things,
which I think are just weird
that happens in JavaScript.
So we're running the benchmark.
First of all, we are gonna get that the
triple equals is significantly faster than
double equals, right?
So then let's add a value
of property to the object.
And now let's run it.
Twice as fast.
Isn't that weird?
Just by adding this
particular property to it?
Okay, let's modify a property
on the object prototype of,
which is the value of,
and let's run it now.
Again a different number,
not as bad, but a different number.
So what's going on over here?
Why do these things affect
the runtime performance?
And it's one of those weird things
about JavaScript is that when you mess
something over here, which you feels
completely unrelated to something else,
yet there is a path that
somehow makes it related.
And so it's oftentimes possible to change
a performance of a system far away,
which you think is unrelated.
Just by adding properties to
prototypes somewhere else,
which is another reason why you shouldn't
probably do that out-of-the-box.
The reason for that is because a double
equals needs to do a coercion of
this object and the way we coerce the
object, is we call the value of property.
Let me maybe show this to
you in another example.
So 3=3, true.
There's not a, that surprising result.
Okay, let's say we have a value of object.
So first of all, we all agree that is not,
of course not I'm sorry.
That's false, right?
What did you know that you can do this?
That's true.
This is coercion, right?
So how does it know if a object
is actually equal to 3?
Well the JavaScript under the hood calls
value of on that particular object.
And by calling value of,
we can get the result.
So now that you know this, you can see how
adding the property would change things.
And so let's do another thing.
Let's comment out this property, right?
This property makes lots and
lots of different shapes.
By commenting out this property, all of a
sudden all the shapes are the same, right?
And so, yet again, if I run this, it will
change the performance of the system.
So the speed here is different than
a speed when it's commented out.
At least it should be, right?
Yes, there's a slight difference in speed.
And it all has to do with
the prototype chain, right?
Because the double equal internally grabs
this object and calls dot value of on.
And what have you learned
about calling a dot value of?
Well, that may be a megamorphic call or
maybe a monomorphic call.
It depends, right,
depending on the shape of the object.
So this read here can actually
internally call dot value of, and
that dot value of actually can mess
with us depending on whether we have
the same object all the time.
Whether we have a different
shape of the object and
whether this value of is declared here or
it's declared on a prototype.
So I believe the fastest iteration should
be this one where the value of is
declared here and
we didn't mess with the prototype.
So this should be the fastest version
of the double equals 25 microseconds.
And so
I think this is kind of interesting.
And so in here we can look
at the inline caches and
we can see,
what things are performing well.
So right now,
everything you see is green, right?
There's no red bits anywhere.
Let's go back to quality.
So let's change this.
And then run it again.
So now we should see megamorphic stuff.
No, it's not gonna show it to us.
Doesn't show okay.
I would expect that this would mark it as
red because internally the object shape is
always different, and it has to hold that
value of somebody doesn't tell it to us,
but that's what's
happening under the hood.
That's why you can end up with a situation
like these where things are very,
very different types of performance.
I think that in general,
there's very few reasons to use
double equals if you think about it.
For the most part, what you really
meant to say was triple equals,
you're just being lazy.
Okay, so generally, using triple equals
is kinda preferred over double equals.
Now, I'm guilty of this, too.
I'm lazy, too.
I also tend to put in two double
equals instead of triple equal.
But you can see that it kinda have
a performance impact to your application.